Good afternoon.
Let me get a quick drink here
before I get the cotton mouth.
All right.
So my name's Michael Lopp.
I'm the manager of
Desktop Management Solutions for
Apple Computer.
I'm really excited to be
talking with you guys today,
mostly because I've been
sitting in the car for two weeks
working on this presentation,
and my wife and kids are really
getting tired of hearing about
managed desktop technologies.
So let's get started.
We're going to spend a little time today,
we're going to be talking
about what our strategy is for
desktop management at Apple.
And as we go through,
we're going to give you some
live demonstrations of NetBoot,
Network Install,
and Apple Remote Desktop,
as well as managed desktop.
So let's get started.
So what we're going to learn today.
We're going to give you this
overview of what we've done
as part of Panther Server,
as part of Apple Remote Desktop.
We're going to spend some time
on understanding how these
different technologies are
actually going to work together.
We're going to talk about some
of the new features that we
have in each of these releases.
And most importantly,
what we're going to be doing is
we're going to be giving you,
sysadmins and IT folks,
ideas of how to use these solutions
together because you all have different
management policies out there.
And our tools,
it's really important that our
tools work well together to
provide a variety of solutions.
So before we start, a show of hands.
How many people are responsible
for two or more Macs?
And by responsible,
I mean if something goes wrong with them,
you're the person that's called.
Hands up.
Two or more.
OK.
Good.
Keep them up.
So 50 or more?
Whoa.
100 or more?
A thousand or more?
Aha, OK.
Interesting.
Oh, sorry.
I can't really see you guys up here.
5,000 or more?
Excellent.
Very good.
Great to see.
5,000 Macs, ladies and gentlemen.
That's a lot.
One more?
This guy's got more.
Is he an Apple employee?
35,000.
35,000 Macs.
We're all NetBooty.
I wonder about that.
One second.
OK, so 35,000.
I lose the bet.
OK,
so let's talk about desktop management.
A gentleman here in the front
row earlier was asking me,
what does management mean, right?
Is it my manager talking
to me and doing stuff?
No, it's not that.
What it is, the way that we see it is
there's basically three
steps to desktop management.
And we're going to talk
about the lifecycle here,
desktop management lifecycle.
We're going to make it simple.
Let's not talk about 35,000 mats.
Let's talk about one single Macintosh.
And the steps-- well,
the business process steps that we see,
that I see, are deploy, manage,
and assess.
Now let me talk about
what each of these means.
For the one Mac, deploy.
Box shows up.
Get it out of the box.
I've got to get it to somebody.
It's got to be a marketing person.
He needs an operating system or
she needs a set of applications.
That's deploy.
Bunch of decisions.
Some action.
Then we have to actually
get it out to them.
Each of you has a different
management policy.
Some of you are giving them a
user and a network password.
Some of you want absolute
control over the desktop.
So you've got a whole other
set of decisions there.
That's manage.
And then there's assess, which is, OK,
great.
I've got the iMac.
It's sitting out there.
And then things are happening to it.
There's new software coming out.
There's troubleshooting
that needs to be going on.
There's new operating systems coming out.
So all these things,
every decision that we just
talked about here is part of
the work for you guys out there.
They're actually working
on managing these machines.
And I'm just talking
about a single Mac here.
We just talked about one single Mac.
So what about if you've got five, 50,
35,000?
What if you're this guy?
What if you've got-- that's
a lot of iMacs there.
So think about it like this.
The point is this.
Think about applying a
software update to this lab.
We take it for granted as individuals,
because the Macs are so easy to use,
that it's really easy to pull
down a software up and do it.
If you want to pull a software
update to this set of Macs,
we're talking about a weekend.
We're talking about hours.
We're talking about a huge
amount of money being expended.
So what our goal is,
what our strategy is,
where we're driving the products,
is to develop an integrated suite of
products and technology to simplify,
automate desktop management of
Apple hardware and software.
Hardware and software.
That's not just desktops.
That's portables.
That's all the software.
This is a very, very, very broad goal,
and it's something I think we've
done really well as part of
Panther Server and Apple Remote Desktop.
So let's go back and see how we
actually fit in with the current
products we have now relative
to this management lifecycle.
So for Deploy,
and we'll talk about each of these
products in depth here in a second.
For Deploy, we have NetBoot,
the ability to NetBoot systems,
do network installs.
We have Manage,
so you can actually set up images and
actually broadcast them out there.
That's one of our management solutions.
Hello.
There we go.
We have the Workgroup Manager,
specifically managed preferences
to help set up the management
policies for you guys out there.
And then we have Assess.
You'll see the ARD, Apple Remote Desktop,
actually covers all of these because
it touches each one of these.
It's a very different tool than the
Panther server because it's a box
and it's a separate application.
But it's something that we feel that
covers all of these different sectors.
So, click.
There we go.
So let's get into some specifics.
NetBoot and network installation.
This is part of Panther server.
I know a lot of you probably already
are very familiar with NetBoot.
For those of you who are not,
the basic building blocks
of NetBoot are images,
disk images.
There are specific images for NetBoot
and specific images for network install.
Let's talk about each one of
those after I have some water.
Okay.
So, two flavors.
Same technology,
two different flavors of this.
First, we have Network Install.
The way I think of Network Install,
I think of it as sort of a
poor man's software update.
The idea here is you
actually build images,
put in whatever arbitrary software
operating systems you want into it,
and allow the user to actually
do installs over the network.
Something to remember about
NetBoot is it's for the wire.
It's not something that's for wireless,
because these are big images, right?
We've got operating systems in here.
You've got applications in here.
So, that's Network Install.
NetBoot, slightly different flavor.
Again, some of you know this.
NetBoot is centralized boot images.
What does that mean?
What that means is it's actually booting
up off the server from a NetBoot image.
There's actually nothing
being stored except for a swap
file in the local machine.
So, that sounds nice and handy,
but why would I really
want to actually do that?
It's really useful for, for example,
a network.
For lab situations,
go back to the guy in that slide, right?
With NetBoot, what you get each time is
you boot up from the machine,
and you get the exact same system.
So,
if you've got a hostile user out there,
and he or she does some
things to the machine,
next time you reboot to a NetBoot system,
you actually get the exact same system.
So,
it's really handy for the lab situation,
kiosk, and that sort of thing.
So some examples,
some real-world examples
of network install,
again, as I already mentioned.
Pushing OS updates out,
pushing out applications,
pushing out whatever disk images
you want in network install.
Full updates, partial updates for
all the Apple hardware.
And you can actually do it with ARD.
You can actually use
the machine to actually,
as you see here on the
Apple Remote Desktop shortly,
you can actually change the
startup disk to actually
reboot from a different image.
And you can actually do that.
Or the system or the users can actually
update at their own convenience.
For NetBoot, again, zero administration.
You don't have to do anything.
You have this one image on a server,
and you don't have to worry about your
machines because you know they're always
going to be in the exact same state.
is a great example of how to use NetBoot.
You could have a different boot
image for different departments,
marketing, engineering.
Or another thing you could do with a new
feature that we put into this release,
we have a diskless NetBoot,
where there's absolutely
no storage on the machine.
And that would be really handy for, say,
if you want to deploy a
network diagnostic image,
where you can actually have a
diskless NetBoot and actually
not have anything on the machine.
So that would be something
to be really handy.
So another use of NetBoot would
be network diagnostic and repair.
So what did we do in Panther?
We did a lot.
We changed a lot.
For those of you, again,
familiar with Netboot,
setting up a Netboot environment
has been complex in the past.
So our first goal was to really
simplify the setup and the
configuration of Netboot servers.
And I'm going to show
that to you in a second.
The other thing is you've
got all these images.
These are big images.
And you've got to do a
lot of things to them.
And there's more software coming out.
So we had this tool called
the Network Image Utility,
which is a simple tool.
We've completely rewritten the
Network Image Utility as part of
Panther Server to be something which
is much more geared at managing images.
Managing meaning I've got new images.
I want to update images.
I want to edit images.
I want to sync them with other sources.
I want to create--
I want to clone volumes.
We've added all of that to
the Network Image Utility.
I'm going to show you some
of that here in a second.
So here's a screenshot
of the NetBoot server.
This is actually the images pane.
You can see it's very similar
to all the other server admin
plugins that we have here.
We'll actually show this to you
in a demo in a couple minutes.
So I'm actually just
going to blow by this.
As you can see,
simplified user interface, server admin,
very familiar.
Anyone who's using server admin is
going to be able to use the NetBoot
piece because it's all the same UI.
As I mentioned, we added another feature,
which is Dysos NetBoot.
That means that there's nothing
being stored on the machine
that's doing the NetBoot.
And also we've provided
Netboot over HTTP as well.
Network Image Utility.
For those of you familiar
with the other one,
this is a brand new one.
We've completely redone it.
We've rewritten it completely in Cocoa.
What you're seeing here is a list
of all the images that you have in a
local machine when you fire up the NIU.
And actually, we're going to show
this to you in a second.
[Transcript missing]
So, like I said,
we've already been in Cocoa.
We've given you the ability to actually
walk through and create these images,
make it easier for you to
understand what you need to do.
A feature that was really popular
is we now have the ability
to clone existing volumes.
So here's a great idea.
You sit down, you configure the
system however you want,
use the network image utility
to actually clone the volume,
create an image out of that.
It's a really handy way
to actually set it up.
Another thing that you'll see is we
actually give the ability to import
and export images from the NIU.
Remember, these are big things.
These can be huge files, right?
So we actually, within it,
you actually have the ability to
actually import and export over there.
And another thing that we've
been asked for is the ability
to put post-install scripts.
So one of the things
you can do is actually,
if we can't do something for you,
you can put an arbitrary script
that does some set of things,
some other setup that we haven't
thought of in there as well.
So that's built right into the NIU.
Let's take a look at these guys.
Nice and fast.
OK.
So here we are in Panther Server.
And we're going to fire up the new NIU.
Okay.
So what you're seeing here,
these are just some images we
put together for this demo.
These are the different
images that I have here.
You can see here these are
all in this local volume here.
I'm trying to give them useful names.
So here we have the Jaguar
latest NetInstall image.
We've got a Panther raw.
Maybe I have a couple different
images that I want to have here.
The idea is you've got
a whole listing here,
which is sortable and by
the last modified date,
and you can actually use this
to actually get an idea of what
images you have on this machine.
All right,
just going quickly across the toolbar.
The two basic types of images we
have are NetInstall and NetBoot,
so you can click on these
to actually do that.
We'll actually do that in one second.
You can edit the image from here as well.
I'm not going to do that right now.
And as I mentioned,
you can import and export as well.
So let's see here.
What do we want to do?
So we're going to go ahead and
actually just start to network,
creating a network install here.
Let's see here.
Let's call this--
Demo, WWDC, we'll give it an ID.
Another thing,
another feature that we add
in here is the description,
right?
So what was in that image
that I called image 27ab?
I have no idea.
This is the Panther image.
Please don't touch.
So you can actually put that
description in there and put a
little more content in there.
So what I'm going to do here,
and I'm actually not going to do this
because this would take a very long time,
but just to give you a feel for it,
is we're actually,
what we do here is we're actually
going to clone this volume.
What I have here is I have a Macintosh,
I have this partition right
here that I want to clone.
But there's another thing I want to do.
I noticed there was this keynote
update that I wanted to add as well.
So this is how easy it is to
actually go and create this.
So I'll go ahead and I'm going to
pull this package that I've already,
already sat here.
Hello.
You waking up there?
Maybe not.
There we go.
I'm going to go ahead and add that.
Okay.
Now, I'm not going to actually
do this right now because,
again, it would take too long.
But what I've just done here
is I'm now creating a network
install image from a partition.
I'm adding another package at the end.
I could add another post install script.
I click create and I actually
see it actually create.
One nice thing for you guys out there
who want to know what's going on.
Excuse me.
There's an actual log here.
The old NIU didn't have anything there.
It was just taken away.
You can see the log here.
You can actually see the
tools that we're using in the
operating system to create this.
So if you want to do it yourself,
just take a look at the log.
So that's the NIU.
Network image utility.
Let's see here.
Okay.
So the other thing I wanted to show
you guys is the server administrator.
[Transcript missing]
Glad to hear that.
Good feedback.
OK, so here we are.
As I mentioned,
there's a lot of different pieces to
NetBoot to get it setting up and running.
So here's the overview.
You can actually see what
you need to get going.
You've got NFS running.
You've got AFP going.
Take a look at the logs here.
Show me the logs.
Tell me what's going on.
Clients that have booted from this.
There's no one actually booted from this,
so we don't actually have
anything in here yet.
And here we're getting to the setting.
This is really the meat
of setting up the server.
What you're seeing here is that
I'm bound to an Ethernet port.
I can say why I want the client
data and the images stored
for this particular server.
But really the meat of what
you're going to be doing is,
managing what images you
have from the server.
So here we are.
Again, you'll see, exactly like the NIU,
this is a list of images that
I have on the server here.
I've enabled a net boot
as a default image.
So if you hold the N key down,
this is the image that
will come from this server,
right?
But we don't want to
do a network install,
because that'd start installing
stuff on someone's machine.
Again, you can enable here as well.
Excuse me.
And also, if you want to do diskless,
this is where you'd be
setting this as well,
as well as setting which protocol
you want it to be served over.
So with this configured like this,
the process of actually firing
up the servers is pretty simple.
You click Start.
And you wait a second.
And you wait one more second.
There we go.
NetBoot's being served up right now.
Really simple,
really easy to use interface
for a very complex problem
that we're trying to solve.
Okay.
So that's it for the demo.
Let's back to slides.
Okay, thank you.
Easy to use, NetBoot.
You've got to love it.
Okay, Managed Desktop,
the other second of our two
management technologies.
I want to jump back to something
I started with a little while ago.
We've got a variety of people out here
with five machines and 35,000 machines.
The fact of the matter is each of you
has a very unique management policy.
Some of you, like I said,
just want to control the
username and the password.
Some of you want absolute control
over it because you're education
and you don't want your students
having access to network resources or
maybe some of the system preferences.
What Managed Desktop does for us is,
for those of you who've attended
some of the directory sessions,
what Managed Desktop does is
it gives us the ability to...
Managed Desktop does for us is it
gives us the ability to manage the
preferences on these client machines.
What happens is, via directory services,
we actually pull down these managed
preferences to a local machine,
and then the operating system
uses those preferences as the
preferences for that machine.
Important point here.
When these preferences are
pulled down via open directory,
they're cached.
So we've got these portables out here,
these portables that may or may
not be actually on the network.
So the nice thing about this is that
we can actually use these portables to
manage the preferences on the machine.
The other nice thing is that
these preferences that you'll
be setting in WorkRouteManager,
and we'll be showing
you this in one second,
are actually going to follow
these portables around.
That's really handy.
The other nice thing,
as you'll see in the WorkRouteManager,
is we have a very flexible way
to define a set of policies.
This is because all of you,
each one of you, has a very,
very different set,
has a different policy.
So you can set policy for computers,
sets of computers in a lab.
You can set policies,
preferences for groups.
So I've got this group of students,
or I've got this group of employees.
So you can set those preferences that
you need to set in certain preferences.
Or you can set it on an
individual user basis.
All of those preferences,
when you set those,
and then pull down the machine,
are composites.
So I can set them up here
at the computer list,
in the group, and in the user.
So, and again, as I mentioned,
it's designed to support
portable hardware.
One thing that I'll
show you here shortly,
and I know this is coming
up in a lot of the sessions,
one of the things that we've added
as part of Managed Desktop and
Workgroup Manager is mobile accounts.
Has everyone heard of this yet?
Okay.
So what mobile accounts are,
what this does is using this
Managed Desktop technology,
it actually gives you the ability,
when you set an account as mobile,
to actually cache the account,
cache the user name,
as well as the network credentials.
This means that if I set up the user to
actually do it with a mobile account,
this means that if I,
when I first log in,
my credentials are pulled down,
my accounts are pulled down,
they're saved locally.
When I disconnect from the network,
I can still log in with the
exact same network password,
right?
So you IT folks out there who always
want one's password for each computer,
each person,
this is a great feature for you guys.
So, Managed Desktop.
Provide standardized
desktop configurations.
Give the ability to
manage system preferences.
Control access to hardware, to software,
to network resources.
The ability to automatically
provide network com directories,
control the desktop, automatically launch
applications that log in.
There's a lot of pieces to this.
So, what we're going to do,
what we did as part of Panther was
a managed desktop was something
which we introduced as part of
Jaguar and continue to support.
So, we want to continue to
refine the technology.
Additionally,
there's new preferences which
have landed as part of Panther.
So, we need to extend it to
actually support those.
And we want stronger support
for portables because there's
a lot of you out there,
a lot of your hardware out
there is going to be portables.
And if you want to manage it,
the technology needs to support you.
So let's quickly go down the
list of managed preferences
that we actually manage.
And I'll go through these pretty quickly.
Application access.
Which applications do you want
them to be actually able to manage?
Managing the classic environment,
when you want it to start up,
dock behavior, how it shows up.
Basically, everything you can do within
normal system preferences.
A new one as of Panther is
the Energy Saver settings.
You lab guys out there,
you've got labs that you want
to start up at 9 o'clock and
you want to shut down at 10 p.m.
With this managed desktop,
this feature that's new Energy Saver
settings is now managed.
So you're going to be able to
do that in your labs as well,
which is a really popular feature.
Thank you.
finder behavior.
Internet preferences.
Careful.
This isn't in Panther.
Why is this still listed here?
Remember, not everyone is going
to Panther tomorrow,
right?
Maybe they will.
Who knows?
This is a preference which is
something which is in Jaguar.
Managed preferences needs to
manage machines that are in
Jaguar as well as Panther.
So what you're going to see when you
look at our preferences for managed
desktop is it's going to be a union.
It's going to be the full set of
them so you can continue to manage
your Panther machines just like
you're managing your Jaguar machines.
Full backward compatibility.
Login items, auto-launching applications,
media access, control the media.
This is another popular
thing in education.
You don't want them burning a lot of CDs,
so you just turn off the CD player.
Mobile accounts,
which we already talked about,
the ability to actually cache an
account that follows you around.
Printer access quotas,
and then management
assistant preferences.
Maybe I don't want people to
get to the accounts button.
So using this-- and actually,
I'll show you this in the demo--
you can actually turn this off,
or whatever preferences you want
not available in system preferences.
So let's do that.
Let's actually show this off.
OK.
Workgroup Manager.
For the sake of simplicity,
what I'm going to do here is I'm
actually going to just edit locally.
So I'm not editing an LDAP server here.
What I'm doing is editing a local NetInfo
database just for simplicity's sake.
So I'm going to go ahead and
I'm going to create a group.
And this is going to be a new group.
I'm going to call it WWDC Lab.
Lab 1.
Go ahead and save that sucker.
All right.
So for the lab, let's see,
what do I want to do to this guy?
For the lab, I'm a very smart IT guy.
And I know that if you
put the doc on the right,
huge productivity gain.
So I'm going to force everybody in
my lab to have the doc on the right.
Because I can't.
All right.
Okay, so quickly,
just to go quick for these
settings here that we have here,
what you can do for each of the
settings that we're going through,
you can have it not managed.
You can have once.
Once, the difference between once and
always is really extremely relevant.
Once means that this
setting is pulled down once,
and it's sort of a breadcrumb.
You're trying to help out your user
by setting up something so it's easy
for them to get around their desktop.
They can then change it.
Always means it's always.
They can't touch it.
And for this,
I'm going to make it always.
So here we go.
Dock on the right.
Good luck.
All right, so what we just did there is
we set the dock to the right so
anybody within this group is going
to get their dock on the right.
All right.
Let's go ahead and create a
user as well and show sort of,
we'll show accounts.
There we go.
Show actually compositing
of preferences as well.
So I'm going to create a new character.
Let's call Rans.
All right,
so we'll go ahead and we'll make Rans.
He's probably going to need a password.
Give him a name and a password.
[Transcript missing]
All right.
So, Ranj is sort of a sketchy character,
so what we're going to do here
is we're going to manage some of
his system preferences as well.
I don't want him to have account access,
and I don't want him to have
expose because it's just too
cool and he's not a cool guy.
Okay.
So we'll go ahead and we'll apply that.
And what we're going to do is we're
actually going to log in to log
in as RANS on this machine here.
So shut this down.
And we'll log out.
No, we'll really log out.
[Transcript missing]
And there we see it.
Doc on the right.
Hugely productive rams.
So, thank you.
What you'll see here is
actually you can't change it.
This is not -- it's because we made
this a forced preference on here.
It's set to always.
When you go and you take a
look at what he can get to,
you can't get to expose.
Oh, my God, what's he going to do?
And you can't get to accounts as well.
So this is a really trivial example.
But you get the idea if you have
multiple workgroups or lots of
users or computer lists that it's
really easy to actually set these
up and deploy them to your users.
You're going to want to know
about mobile accounts because it
seems to be a very popular topic.
I would direct you toward
the session tomorrow at 9:00,
developing for managed networks.
No.
Is that right?
9:00 session.
And they're actually going to be
demoing it there tomorrow so you
can actually see that at work.
So let's log back in as admin.
And leave this for the next demo.
OK, back to slides, please.
OK, so that was Managed Desktop.
OK, last of the three.
Apple Remote Desktop.
So this is very different than the two
technologies we just talked about today,
we already talked about.
It's a separate product.
It's why there's a box.
There's a big difference
between these technologies,
this product and the technology
we just talked about,
because Apple Remote Desktop is
more of a real-time technology.
It's a separate product to actually
do things in real-time of the now,
as I would like to think of it.
One of the key features with
Apple Remote Desktop is the ability
to use it on not just one machine,
but actually to broadcast
to multiple machines.
That's a big differentiator.
As I mentioned, it's a separate product
from Panther Server,
and it's really ideal for small to
medium-sized deployments of Macs.
Let's take a look at what
we've got going on here.
So this is a sample screenshot
of an Apple Remote Desktop.
What you're looking at
is up in the bottom here,
we've got a list of the machines
that we're interacting with.
Over here on the right,
we're doing a multi-observe,
looking at four machines
at the same time,
something maybe you want to do in
a classroom if you're monitoring
what your students are doing.
There's a sending a text message,
and that at the top is actually a report
that's been generated against this.
We're actually going to do a
live demo of this in a second,
so let's talk a little bit about how
you're going to use Apple Remote Desktop.
System management, copying files,
moving applications,
that's more of the software distribution.
System management,
making sure that you've
got the right machines,
doing profiling against them,
doing remote assistance,
doing actual interaction with
these machines via screen sharing.
System profiling is one other big thing.
We're doing asset management.
And software distribution, again,
installing packages over the network,
doing all sorts of things.
It's the Swiss Army knife.
That's what I always think
about Apple Remote Desktop.
There's a huge amount of
things you can do that.
And when you sit down and
you take a look at it,
there's just a huge amount of
what I call management verbs that
you can do with this application.
And we're going to show you
a bunch of those in a second.
First, what did we do with ARD or
Apple Remote Desktop this year?
First off, we had two releases this year.
We had the
Apple Remote Desktop 1.2 release,
which was out last March.
An incremental release,
but we did add some key new features.
The ability to set the
network startup disk.
Again,
utilizing NetBoot and NetworkInstall,
the ability to do that so you can
quickly repurpose a large set of
machines to a different disk image.
Remote software installation,
the ability to broadcast packages
to a large set of machines,
as well as make it really
easy to auto-update prior
versions on the network.
That was one release.
There's another release.
So we actually did
something with Panther.
And those of you who have gotten your CD,
you've installed it
and taken a look at it,
in the sharing panel,
there's a new little checkbox.
Apple Remote Desktop.
What did we do?
Did we give you a free copy of ARD,
Apple Remote Desktop?
Actually, what we did,
there's two pieces to
Apple Remote Desktop.
There's the agent.
Those of you familiar with the product,
there's the agent.
What we've done, there's the agent and
there's the administrator.
The administrator's the
console that you look at.
What we've done,
is we've built the agent into Panther.
The number one complaint people
had about Apple Remote Desktop is
it's hard to configure.
I've got to go visit
every single machine,
install the agent,
make sure everything's in.
It's built in.
Every Panther server and and
every version of Panther has
this built into the product.
So you click-- well, we'll actually show
it to you in a second.
So what I'm going to do now is I'm
actually going to bring Chris Sorman.
He's the
Apple Remote Desktop Engineering Manager.
Welcome.
So what we're going to do here is we're
actually going to do a little scenario.
We're an IT administrator,
and we're actually going to do
some management of our machines.
Let's go ahead and fire up ARD,
Apple Remote Desktop.
Chris is going to go ahead
and add four machines.
We have a wide variety.
We have a 17-inch PowerBook, a 15-inch,
a tangerine, we have a lot of hardware.
He's going to go ahead
and add those machines.
So let's first,
what we want to do is let's say we've
got a problem with one of these machines.
So let's go ahead and actually
control one of these machines.
[Transcript missing]
So the first question is going to be,
well, what if I've got 30
machines that I'm observing?
So when you get to more
than four machines,
what you actually do is you'll
start cycling through them.
So if there were six there,
you'd get one, two, three, four,
and then it'd cycle to
the next two as well.
One of the nice features that we
put into ARD 1.2 was the ability
to actually jump in and actually
look at one of these machines.
Click on that, boom, you're right there.
And then pull it back.
Great.
Okay, so I'm sort of a finicky IT guy,
and I like my machine
names to be a certain way.
And right now they're all set to,
it looks like, English Lab.
Actually,
I'm going to give it a different name.
But again, we've got to be thinking
about multiple machines here.
So what we're going to do here is we're
actually going to give it a new name.
is the founder of Mathlab.
Oh, that's right, it's in Mathlab now.
I forgot completely.
What you see here is happening
is he just typed in Mathlab.
And each of them just
actually auto-incremented.
And he did a massive change
of all the names right there.
But again, be thinking about 20 machines.
Be thinking about 50 machines here.
So next up, we're going to do a
little asset management.
I'm going to go ahead and do a system
info report against these four machines.
[Transcript missing]
So there he goes.
You just do it to a known format.
It's just out to the desktop.
There you go.
Right there.
Again, four machines,
but imagine if this was 400.
You've just done all of this
work from a single machine.
Well,
next thing we're going to do is actually,
we're going to actually push
some bits onto these machines.
Chris has a thing called
Developer Essentials on
this machine right here.
What he's going to do is he's actually
going to go ahead and deploy this
set of information to these machines.
What you saw there is he just dragged
and dropped it to the set of machines.
It's asking him right now
about where he wants to put it.
And it's the same relative location.
And there it goes.
Aha, it's already there,
so we're going to replace
the ones that are there.
And it's going and starting to copy them.
[Transcript missing]
So next thing we're going to do,
one of the things we have
is there's a lot of software
updates coming out all the time.
And one of the things you want to do is
you want to take these software updates,
you want to push them
out to a set of machines.
So what Chris is going to do now is
he's going to fire a software update up,
and he's going to pull
down a small update.
[Transcript missing]
is going to actually move it onto
these machines using one of the new
features in Apple Remote Desktop 1.2.
So what he's going to go ahead and do,
after he moves it into the finder,
is he's actually going to go ahead...
When he gets to Apple desktop,
eventually.
There we go.
Okay, so one of the new features is
actually install a package.
So again, 50 machines, 100 machines.
What we want to do here is actually
going to do an install there.
Keep an eye on the status.
First off, it's copying it,
it's broadcasting out
to all the machines.
[Transcript missing]
I'm guessing those are the iBooks?
The iBooks.
Okay.
[Transcript missing]
Still going.
Is that one still installing?
All done.
Is that the tangerine?
Okay.
I'm going to go ahead and reboot.
You're going to hear this noise here that
I'm sure is going to be very familiar.
coming offline.
And sounds good.
So what we did there is we just did,
again, a small example of doing
some management with ARD,
Apple Remote Desktop,
and showed off some of the verbs
that we have built into the system.
There's a bunch more,
and I encourage you to
take a look at that.
And it should be a lot easier
for you to do so because we
actually built the agent in.
So thank you, Chris.
Okay, so that was the
Apple Remote Desktop demo.
Keep your eye on this space.
There's lots of fun things
happening in this space.
So, wrap up.
This is a holy grail demo that I would
have loved to give you guys if we had
the time to actually be able to do it.
What I would have loved
to do is actually pull a,
do what you all do all day,
is pull a new machine out of a box,
set it up, hold down the N key,
have an automatically network
install that I've built previously,
start to install automatically,
have the network, have everything set up
on that machine for you,
so that you don't have to do anything
other than hold down the N key.
So when the user actually gets a machine,
they fire it up,
they're just sitting there
at their login window,
they can use their name and password,
and you didn't have to do anything other
than build that one image for them.
I think that would be a
really compelling demo,
and I think one of the things
that you should know now is
that using these technologies,
you have the ability to do that.
So, key points that we have.
I think what we're doing is we're working
on the best tools and technologies
to manage Macintosh hardware.
I think what we're showing off here
today is we're showing off that
they're designed for flexibility.
Because again, all of you, 35,000,
all of you have a different management
policy and we need to be able to
provide tools and technologies
for you to be able to do that.
And again, these are built in to
Panther and Panther Server.
So it's already out there and
I encourage you to give them a try.
Just so you know,
there's a lot of other sessions
which actually support us.
Directory services relative to
managed desktop is really important.
I realize a lot of these
may have already occurred.
So I encourage you to look at
the slides or review these.
Building applications
for managed networks.
We'll be showing off mobile
accounts on that tomorrow.
That's tomorrow morning at 9:00 AM.
Authentication.
Again, this already occurred.
So I encourage you to look at
the slides or review these.
Building applications
for managed networks.
We'll be showing off mobile
accounts on that tomorrow.
That's tomorrow morning at 9:00 AM.
Authentication.
Again, this already occurred.
occurred, but it's something I encourage
you to take a look at.
Here's our contact information
if you want to come find us.
Here's some great resources
of resources up there.
What I'd like to do now is I'd like
to invite some of the rest of the
team up here to actually come up here
and answer some questions for us.